hey what's up Andrew Kramer here for
Video Copilot dotnet and welcome back to
another very exciting tutorial today
we're going to be taking a look at
creating some damage and decay effects
inside of After Effects without any
third-party plugins so if you like
procedural effects with tons of
possibilities you're in the right place
let's go and take a look at what we're
going to be creating
[Music]
all right so lots of cool things
happening here and what makes this
effect so powerful is that it's entirely
procedural and what that means is that
all of the effects like the moss and the
grass and the cracks they're all
automatically created based on the input
shape in this case a logo but what I
could do is change it out to some text
and now all of the effect updates I can
even type something new and now you have
a whole new animation and it's worth
mentioning that even though the moss is
growing out of the cracks it's not
growing out of all of the cracks so
there's a certain amount of randomness
that we can add to the effect and just
like before we can change the lighting
so we can go into the 3d lights and we
can change the colors move them around
and we get a whole new effect and you
can see that the moss and the cracks and
the logo are all being affected by the
lights there's really a ton of
possibilities you can even control the
decay around the edges instead of just
the cracks in this example you could see
the grass is only growing around the
edges we could do kind of a chipped
paint effect which is a nice more subtle
effect some other possibilities like
this where you have some blood on the
logo maybe it's for a medieval TV show
you could switch out the logo with like
a McDonald's logo or maybe an Arby's
logo and this could be barbecue sauce I
admit the possibilities are starting to
narrow out a bit but you get the idea
another one of my favorite examples is
this rust effect this is a good example
of the layering that we can do you know
it's interesting when I play this
backwards it reminds me of this TV show
I used to watch when I was kid was
called Billy Mays it was about this guy
that would go house to house fighting
crime and fixing stuff with this magic
potion called OxiClean he was literally
cleaning up the streets hi Billy Mays
here for OxiClean the stain specialist
and will supersize your oxy clean to a
whopping six pound bucket so these are
all the examples oh wait there's more
here's another cool example with like a
gold plating or a gold foil now if
you're looking for something a little
more clean
like metal shiny titles check out the
fantasy title effects tutorial lots of
great tips there alright let's go ahead
and get started in this project we're
gonna set it to 16 bits per channel
so just alt click until we get to 16
bits per channel then let's create a new
composition make this 1920 by 1080 it's
all looks good ten seconds and we'll
call this decay it'll hit okay alright
so first thing we want to do is create
our source title so we'll take the text
tool we'll come in here we'll type in
decay and we'll scale this up and then
we'll pre compose this layer pre-compose
we're gonna move all attributes we're
going to call this decay alpha it'll hit
OK now in order to get to all of the
crazy fun effects we need to set up our
basic title so to do that we're gonna
duplicate this alpha edit duplicate and
then we're gonna precompose it so we'll
choose layer pre-compose now we're gonna
move all the attributes we're gonna call
this decay bevel and hit okay then if we
open this up we can set up our bevel
profile similar to how we did it in the
last tutorial so we'll choose layer
layer style inner glow we'll go down to
the settings here we'll set it to normal
set it to 100% opacity set the color to
black hit OK and we're gonna set the
technique to precise and then as we
increase the size here we can see that
it creates this inner glow that's
perfectly aligned to the edge now I'm
gonna set the size to about 20 all right
so that looks good the other thing we
want to do is get rid of the Alpha
Channel so we'll create an adjustment
layer we'll do an effect called channel
solid composite and this just adds a
color into the background we'll do black
hit OK
let me set this to full resolution and
just to avoid some aliasing let's add a
fast blur when she's blur fast box blur
we'll do like one pixel one iteration
repeat edge pixels so let's go back to
the decay comp and we'll set up our
title with the 3d lighting so if we go
over here to our project we've got a
couple of different things here we've
got this grunge pick in this rock
texture so let's take the rock grunge
drop it out here and I want to pre
compose it so I'll choose layer pre
compose it will move all the attributes
and we'll just call this rock texture
and hit OK now to create our 3d looking
title we're gonna use an effect called
CC glass we'll go in here stylize CC
glass and what we're gonna do is go into
the surface settings and we're going to
select our decay bevel as the bump and
now we can see that it's starting to
displace now in this case we're going to
set the softness down to zero and we're
going to set the displacement down to
zero so we just want to create some of
the relighting now in order to get rid
of the background we're gonna use an
effect called channel set matte and for
this we're gonna select our decay alpha
now we're using that in order to create
a perfect cutout now I'll go and turn
these two layers off at the bottom now
I'll turn off the transparent background
set this to full res zoom out here now
if I select our rock texture we can go
to the lighting settings and change it
from the built-in lights to the AE
lights and what this will allow us to do
is create our own real 3d lights so if
we go up here we could choose layer new
light it'll choose a parallel light and
hit OK and so you can see if we move
this around
we're actually adjusting the lighting of
this title so already this is a pretty
cool technique for creating some
nice-looking 3-dimensional eyes texts
but we're gonna take it a little bit
further move one of the lights over here
to the side and maybe hit P and push it
back a little bit
and then we'll create a new ambient
light maybe at 50% and maybe just one
more point light that has just a little
bit of an accent color maybe some blue
I'll move that over to the side maybe
push it into Z space a bit and now we
were just lighting up the edges now
we'll take our parallel light hit T and
let's turn up the intensity of the light
and P and we'll push it back a bit
alright so now we want to create a more
rocky edge and what I want to do is lock
our comp double click on the bevel and
then just move this over to the side now
we want to add a little bit of texture
to our bevel so what we're gonna do is
inside of the decay bevel comp let's
create a new solid and we'll call this
rock fractal and hit OK then we're gonna
add the fractal noise effect now one
thing you might notice is this little
command
it's called effects console it's free
you could get it from Video Copilot
dotnet or you can go over here to
effects and presets and just type it in
fractal noise we'll drop that on our
lair now one problem is that the fractal
is taking over the entire title but if
we change the transfer mode to additive
then it'll only affect the ridge but I
think it's a little bit too noisy so
there's another option that looks pretty
cool it's called Max and one thing I
like to do is just turn the invert on
and it creates more concave cutouts now
we can play around with the brightness
and contrast and this will affect the
way that it cuts out the bevel could
draw this down just a bit and another
thing I like to do is create a little
bit of an indentation now one way to
think about this is that we're adding
and subtracting lightness so what I'll
do is take the decay alpha duplicate it
ctrl D or edit duplicate and I'm gonna
put it on top then I'm going to choose
channel invert
and then I'm gonna add a fast box blur
and we'll crank this up just a little
bit and now you can see that the way
it's affecting it it's sort of changing
it a little bit but I'm gonna turn the
opacity down so I hit T and just lower
this down and so look at the ridge now
so if I turn it off its flat if I turn
it on this just creates a bit of an
indentation now even though we have a
nice rock texture I want to add some
real physical indentation so we'll
create a new solid and we'll call this
rock dense and hit okay now add the
fractal noise effect now for this one
we're gonna set it to multiply then
we'll zoom in here and we're gonna
increase the brightness and so now we
leave these little small patches and
that creates these nice rocky dents so
let's turn the contrast down just a bit
and maybe turn up the brightness a bit
we could even do something like a
sharpen unsharp mask and this will make
it even sharper looking so that nice bit
of variation where we have texture we
have indentation that really adds to the
realism of the base texture then we
could go over here and just hit T and
lower the opacity to say 50% and that
way we're not doing too much indentation
so maybe 70% that looks good
all right so I'll go and close the bevel
profile and now we can start having some
fun all right let's set up a background
I have this rock grunge texture drop it
in there we'll choose effect curves and
we're going to darken it down and just
make sure it's darker than the title I
think that looks pretty good
now for this example we're gonna create
a long shadow so to do that I'm gonna
actually take a copy of the Alpha
Channel and choose edit duplicate we'll
put it right underneath a rock texture
and we'll rename a few of these layers
so we'll call this
title like the one below it will enter
we'll call this shadow we'll turn it on
and I'll solo it now currently it's
white we'll go ahead and choose color
correction tint and we'll make it black
now to make this into a shadow we're
gonna choose effect blur CC radial blur
and we'll change the type to fading zoom
and they're going to move the center up
really high so we can just zoom out
we'll just put it way up here and then
we'll increase the amount and if we turn
that off solo mode we can start to see
our shadow now we want to somewhat match
the angle of our light and we could
probably set up an expression but just
for this I'm just going to use what we
call winging it now one thing I do like
to do is maybe do a duplicate copy of
the shadow ctrl D and then set the range
to maybe like 1 and this just creates
two copies so it could turn the bottom
copy down the opacity and it just
creates a little bit more dimension
now speaking of dimension there's a
couple of different tricks we could use
to dimensionalize this in a 2d way one
thing we could do is duplicate the title
ctrl D move it below and we could do the
radial blur effect we could do CC radial
blur change it to fading zoom and turn
the amount to about negative 8 then we
could choose color correction curves and
then turn the Alpha Channel up so if we
look closely it's a bit faded but if we
turn up the Alpha Channel it'll make it
more solid
so in this case it does a pretty good
job I think if we just darken it down I
think that's a pretty good now another
thing to note is that the shadows are
still coming out of the same place so
what we could do is take the two shadow
layers hit s and just scale them down
until this dark edge lines up with that
new bevel profile so we're just gonna
scale it down all right so this is
looking pretty good now speaking of look
one thing we could do is go to our main
title and maybe we'll just change the
color to red so it stands out a little
bit and we'll go in here to the shading
I don't know maybe I'll just do a color
correction let's add a curves adjustment
and put it to the top and basically I
just want to darken the text down a bit
so that it's more affected by the
lighting than it is by the texture cool
now on the CC glass effect there are
some options under shading and this
actually gives you control over the
material now for a stone surface we want
to turn the roughness up and then maybe
the diffuse down and maybe we'll take
this other light here hit T and we'll
turn it up a bit and you know we could
have a lot of fun with the relighting
now one quick optimization tip is on the
layer where we created the extrusion why
don't we turn off the CC glass effect
and maybe just darken it down a bit
alright so now that we have the title
set up we can create whatever we want we
can add moss we can add cracks rust
blood paint chips this is where we start
adding effects so let's get started by
creating this moss effect since it
contains most of the techniques that we
need to learn and then we'll take a look
at the paint peeling and corrosion
effects at the end all right so let's
add some moss to this title so first
thing we'll do is we'll take a copy of
the decay alpha and we'll choose edit
duplicate and we'll turn it off and then
we'll take the copy here don't you
whose layer pre-compose will move all
the attributes and we'll call this de
que mas and then we'll hit okay
now we'll double-click on the de que
moss and let's move it over to the side
here and I actually just want to turn
the Alpha Channel off we'll probably use
it later on now inside of this comp
let's create a new solid I don't call
this mas and hit okay now there's a
really cool effect I like to use called
cell pattern it will drop this out here
you've probably seen it and you thought
what is this what am I gonna do with
this well much like the fractal noise
effect this is a great building block
effect so what we could do is play
around with the size and just scale this
down a lot then we can turn up the
contrast just to create little small
pieces and be a little less in there we
go and then on top of this we could do
something like a turbulent displace so
turbulent displace and we'll set the
size of this really low so this is just
kind of like a distortion plugin but
we're gonna set this really low and what
this will do is just create irregular
shaped cells so we'll set the complexity
up to like three I don't know maybe two
and then speaking of fractal noise let's
add a fractal noise and we'll turn the
contrast up and we'll set the blending
mode to multiply and what this will
basically do is allow us to create some
variation in the moss effect so just
bringing the brightness down will reduce
the amount of moss so we'll lock this
layer we'll jump back over here to our
decay comp now if we hit back slash on
the keyboard it'll bring up the comp or
I think this button does it now if we
select the title that has our CC glass
effect on it what we can do is duplicate
that layer so choose edit duplicate and
we'll rename this moss effects now we
could reuse a lot of the settings here
but just so that you can see the process
happening I'm gonna just delete the
effects and what I'll do is I'll solo
the layer
now we just have a texture here so we'll
add a curves adjustment which is just
gonna give us the ability to color
correct it I think that looks good then
we're gonna add the CC glass effect
again CC glass and under the surface
bump map we're gonna choose decay moss
and so now it's a little bumpy will turn
the softness down and the displacement
down we can start to see a little bit
then we'll go to the light settings and
change it to AE lights so now we're
starting to see a bit of the moss effect
now to fix the Alpha Channel we'll
select it will choose effect channel set
matte then we'll choose the original
title Alpha Channel the decay alpha comp
and now we've created an alpha Channel
but we actually want to do something
even more specific we want to create an
alpha Channel from this luminance so
we're actually going to create to set
matte effects so we're gonna choose
effect channel set matte again but this
time we're gonna choose the decay Moss
comp and that's this one over here with
the bump map so choose that now nothing
happens because there's no alpha Channel
there's only a luminance channel but if
we set the matte from alpha channel to
luminance now we've created some
transparency alright so this is the
secret so now we have a very faded
transparent edge and we're gonna try to
tighten that up a little bit with a
curve adjustment so add color correction
curves we'll jump over here to the Alpha
Channel and we'll just crank it up so
I'll grab a point and just crank it up
so check this out we're creating a layer
with an alpha channel of just the little
bits of moss so now we can turn
everything back on here and it's perfect
thanks for watching or we could play
around so a couple things to note is
that we don't have to crank it all the
way up another thing we could do is if
we don't like it being so close to the
edge we can use a matte choker so check
this out we could do Matt maybe a simple
choker and just drop it between
the to set matte effects and if we turn
this up a little bit it'll just cut it
down a little bit now if we want to
soften that edge we could use a channel
blur blur channel blur and this just
blurs the Alpha Channel so we could do
the same thing drag this up above in
between the two Matt effects we could
turn the alpha blurriness up a bit and
there you can see it just softens that
let's just do a little bit of color
correction on the moss so we'll do
another copy of the curves and maybe
we'll bring the red channel down a
little bit maybe the green channel up
just a touch and another thing I think I
might want to go to the CC glass effect
and lower the height of the map and also
note that if we do a negative we can
create some indentation so this is
really the whole secret to this is we
can create all of these effects from
this single effect so now we could play
with the shading and turn up the ambient
light now to give it a little bit more
dimension we're gonna give it a drop
shadow so we'll go over here to the
effects and presets will type drop
shadow perspective drop shadow and drop
it at the bottom here now this is not an
effect I use very often but we could
turn the opacity up and you can see it
creates like a little drop shadow and
gives it a bit more dimension and rotate
this so it aligns with the direction of
the light now let me set the distance to
say two now what makes this effect look
good I think is if you have a really
tight alpha channel so if this is the
Alpha and we crank this up so it's
really sharp then I think it looks a
little bit nicer when you have like a
soft drop shadow versus if it's too soft
but either way it definitely adds more
realism
alright so now if we jump over here to
the moss comp head backslash that'll
open up the timeline one thing to point
out is that if I play around with the
settings here and let go it updates in
our final comp and this can be a fun way
to design once you have it
up you can really play around with the
different settings so we could increase
the contrast and this will create bigger
gaps we could lower the size and just
create a variation of looks
there's also another mode called tubular
and it just creates a slightly different
looking moss and I think that could be
kind of cool depending on what you're
after now if we turn up the complexity
of the turbulent displace to say four
and increase the amount maybe the size
to like three we can really create some
randomness so let's jump back over here
to this comp and if we jump over here to
the CC glass effect one thing I want to
do is turn the height up just a little
bit and then let's go down here to the
shading and set the metal amount down to
zero and that way the specularity will
be the color of the light and then turn
the roughness up maybe you turn the
diffuse down and the specular down and
maybe the ambient up and also let's make
the shadow a little tighter so go to the
shadow maybe set it to a two distance
and maybe just add a little bit of red
back so if we jump back into the decay
moss comp one thing to point out is that
if we grab the moss effect and lower the
brightness of this fractal noise the
moss will begin to deplete so in fact
this is not a bad way to animate the
moss growing on we could simply animate
the brightness now the moss is looking
good let's come back to this I'm gonna
close the moss comp and what I want to
do is open up our decay bevel comp and
in fact I'm going to turn the moss layer
off so open up the decay bevel and let's
slide that over to the side here what we
want to do is create our cracks in our
bevel and that way it creates the
indentation in our title so we'll do is
create a new solid I'll call this cracks
hit okay we'll go over here to the
effects we're gonna type in cell pattern
again drop that on here and we're gonna
change this to crystals high quality and
that creates these cool chip looking
effects and they're going to turn up the
amount really high maybe to like fifteen
hundred so they're really thin and then
let's add a turbulent displace so a
turbulent displace you can search it
right here and del will scale this down
a bit maybe complexity three and so now
we're just getting a little bit more of
the rigidness in our comp and I might
even scale up the size of the pattern so
we'll just scale this up maybe to about
a hundred that looks pretty good
and to make it a little bit thinner
we'll set this to about 1800 now I want
to reuse this layer so I'm gonna pre
compose it I'll choose layer pre compose
move and we'll call this cracks and hit
okay now I'm going to set the transfer
mode to multiply and now we can see that
we've created some cracks on our main
comp and maybe I'll turn the brightness
down just a little bit and now we can
close this comp now I want to put a
little bit of shading into the cracks so
let's jump back to the project grab the
cracks comp drop that over the title set
it to multiply and to get rid of the
Alpha Channel will choose channel set
Matt and we'll choose that same decay
alpha all right so now let's turn our
moss effect back on and it will jump
down to the moss decay
open that up slide this over so what we
want to do is make it so that the moss
only grows around the areas with the
cracks so to do this we'll jump back to
the project grab the cracks comp and
drop it into the decay moss comp now if
we think about this in terms of
lightness and darkness what we need to
do is
Verte this so we'll choose effect
channel invert so now we can see that
the moss is growing around the crack so
we're halfway there but we don't want it
to be perfect we want to create some
randomness and some variation so what
we'll do is we'll set this to multiply
and that'll make it so that the moss is
actually part of the comp that we
created so now what we need to do is
just make the cracks a little bit
thicker so we'll do a couple of things
we'll choose effect blur fast box blur
and we'll just blur it out a bit and
then we'll make it thicker but it's a
bit faded so let's boost it up with a
curves adjustment and we'll take this
and we'll brighten it up all right so
now we're starting to get the idea so if
we lower the blur amount then we can
control where the moss grows out of but
even this is still a bit too perfect so
what we'll do is we'll add a turbulent
displace so we'll come over here
turbulent displace now we want to be
careful not to displace it too much so
that it's no longer aligning so we'll
bring the size down and maybe turn the
amount up maybe the complexity up just
to give it a little bit more detail but
I think that's a good start for what we
need now just to point this out we can
open up the cracks comp and we could
change the size of the crack so we could
turn up the size and now the cracks
update the moss updates this is that
sweet sweet procedural now we have our
moss effects right here and I want to
grow some grass out of the moss effects
so a good place to start would be to
duplicate that so we'll choose edit
duplicate and we'll call this grass
effects and we'll take this layer and
we're gonna add an effect called CC hair
so we'll take this effect drop it on to
the grass right on top and right away if
you look closely you can see little bits
of hair so let me see if we can get rid
of some of these effects
think we need a drop shadow for this and
jump into the CC hair effect here are
the different options we have things
like hair length we have things like
weight we have the density and the cool
thing about this effect is it's coming
out of the moss so if we jump down here
to the color we can change the color to
sort of a greenish color maybe turn up
the thickness and it's cool cuz as you
turn up the thickness the weight gets
heavier genius now there's some other
options in the map settings we can add a
little bit of noise
just a little randomness maybe turn the
density down a bit now the hairs are
very straight so just to add a little
randomness we'll add a turbulent
displace so turbulent displace turn the
size down really low like three we might
also turn the opacity up on this and
maybe darken down the hair color a bit
now notice that the inheritance actually
grabs the color from the moss which is
kind of interesting so depending on what
the color is you can simplify your
workflow even more but yeah so we'll
bring the thickness down a bit now you
can see there's a little bit of lighting
on this if we go to the shading maybe
turn this specular down a bit now there
is a way to add a little bit of wind
blowing like in the original example the
way to do that is to create a new solid
it'll call this wind map it okay we'll
take fractal noise and we don't really
have to change the settings just animate
the evolution maybe turn the complexity
down to like two
and then pre-compose it's a lair
precompose move all attributes wind map
and hit okay so then we'll turn that off
grab the grass effect and for the map
layer let's choose the wind map and so
now if we just take a look at this sort
of just kind of blows in the wind here
I'll play this back real quick so now
we've got realistic plant physics inside
of After Effects alright well maybe
that's a little overstated but uh
still pretty cool so let's turn that off
and maybe bring the strength down a bit
and let's add a color correction to this
and this is the part where I think we
just want to add some variation so we
could take a copy of the grass now and
hit ctrl D and let's put one down below
even further and scale it down a little
bit and then we could randomize some of
the settings so let's see maybe maybe
take the link down just a bit and the
weight up and then these ones in the
back here since these guys right here
maybe will darken them down so it looks
like they're a little bit in shadow and
the real trick to the grass and any kind
of vegetation is just a lot of
randomness and variation so you could do
things like duplicate the copy and maybe
these ones are a little bit more random
looking so we can add noise but just
keep them really short so that they just
create texture almost so one thing we
could do is take this light hit AAA and
let's change it to more of a warm
colored light and then I'm gonna do a
color correction adjustment layer so new
adjustment layer let's do a curves
adjustment
and maybe add a little bit of red bring
the blue down just a touch
we don't want to look too orange and
then maybe a tint effect just to
desaturate it a bit the material of the
stone texture is a little bit shiny so
let's go down here to the title I think
this is it and we'll go to the CC glass
effect and we'll turn up the ambient
which will brighten the letters a bit
and then we could turn the roughness up
and then turn the specular down and then
we could even tweak the color correction
of the stone if there's just a touch
more contrast there and now that looks a
little bit more like the legends of the
Hidden Temple on Nickelodeon which is
what we want obviously and now we could
play around with the environment a bit I
have this light spot you could do
optical flares we could just scale this
up maybe add a curves adjustment to it
we'll put it below the color correction
and just add a little bit of red and
scale it up
and maybe drop the blue down just a
touch so that always looks nice we could
even move it over here to the side up
here since I guess that's where the
light source is coming from that looks a
little bit better with the shadow back
in the project I have some particle
effects free particle effects pack that
you can download from the website Video
Copilot net and will take out an O
particle number eight transform fit to
comp we'll scale it up just a touch add
a curves adjustment and we'll set this
to screen and then drop that below the
color correction and just slide it over
now once that's in the scene I might go
to the top and do a color correction on
top like a little contrast alright so
this is looking pretty good now add some
really simple light rays I could just
show you what I did I just made a new
solid with a fractal noise and I did a
mask around the top and then I did a CC
radial blur set to fading zoom and then
just turn this up and then I move the
center point way up here now it's
getting cut off so I like to do my solid
composite trick and just place that
before the radial blur and set it to
black now it gets a little faded here so
I just scaled the whole layer up and set
it to screen and to create just a
narrower scope I could just bring it in
here and then hit F and feather out that
little selection and if we add more
contrast to the fractal noise
you get a nice look like that maybe just
lower the length of this and if we
wanted to we could animate the evolution
of the fractal noise so we hit you move
forward here and just slowly animate it
and that way you just get a little bit
of movement in the light race so that's
looking really good and again it's all
procedural so if we jump back into our
decay alpha where we have our title we
could drop it to the side here and we
can type could bring a logo out just
make sure that your logo is white so I
can add tint effect
I'll just mask out the emblem here turn
on the continuous rasterization now
depending on the size of this we can
even increase the bevel width so now how
do we animate this over time now one
thing we could probably do is open up
the cracks comp and drag this over to
the side here because the moss and the
cracks everything is based on this comp
so if we animate this comp we could
probably control all of the other
elements so what I'll do is I'll take a
copy of the Alpha drop it into the crack
pre comp now you can see it's covering
over almost everything and we're only
seeing a little bits of it so basically
what we need to do is animate the logo
on now we could do it a couple of
different ways we could do something
like a transition linear wipe because
what this would do is just linearly
animate it on and that might be pretty
cool if you just had it set up the right
way maybe you only want the growth to be
at the bottom and therefore you could
just rotate this and maybe now we just
have some moss halfway on the logo now
to get it to grow outward you might use
the fast box blur with an alpha
adjustment so a curves adjustment with
the
alpha Channel and the way I would do
that is just increase it let's see so if
we animated the fast blur hit you move
the keyframe over and just animate it
until it's gone
so let's go and just take a look at that
real quick
so that looks pretty good get the basic
idea there I think the other thing I did
was I animated the color correction so
you could probably just do the tenth
here and just increase it so it feels a
little bit withering I was also able to
animate the bevel size and the way I did
that was inside of the decay bevel
opened that up and I just animated the
inner glow so the size of the inner glow
from 20 up to you know whatever and that
way it gets rid of that nice chiseled
edge you can even start it even tighter
like that alright so we'll take a look
here and it's looking pretty good I
think we could see all the different
ways that we can customize this and add
more cracks add more dense add more
grunge now the key to this is
experimenting but I do want to show you
a little bit of how I did the rust
effect so I just reset this back to
where we didn't have any moss and we
just had a nice logo and what I'm gonna
do is take the Alpha Channel that we
created and duplicate it and then
pre-compose it so I'll turn that back
off and then pre-compose gonna call this
decay rust and hit okay
let me just turn it off they'll open it
up slide it over and we'll turn this off
and we'll create a new solid I'll call
this noise okay and it'll take the
fractal noise drop it on here and we'd
want to turn up the contrast
now I'll go ahead and lock this and jump
back over here to our main comp we'll
grab the title and we'll choose edit
duplicate and we'll hit enter I will
call this rust and we'll solo this now
I'm gonna get rid of all these effects
and just show you from scratch well add
the CC glass effect stylize CC glass and
for the bump map we're gonna choose the
decay rust comp set the softness down to
zero displacement zero and set the
lights to AE lights and they'll choose
channel-set matte and we'll choose the
decay alpha from our text there we go
just like before and then we'll do
another channel set matte effect and
this time we'll choose the decay rust
comp this comp and then again we'll set
it to luminance and then we'll add a
curves adjustment and we can tweak the
Alpha Channel if we solo this you can
kind of see what we're trying to do and
though we'll just turn this down
actually I want to try to make it a
little bit more crisp and I'm actually
going to set this to be inverted so up
here on the glass instead of a positive
value I'm going to do a negative value
and then add a curves adjustment on top
and darken it down so this is the basic
essence of this effect
now there's two tricks to making it look
right the first is we want to have the
edge kind of bend upward now to create
the bent upward edge we need to
duplicate the rust ctrl D and we'll put
this below our first rust copy and for
this one we're gonna set it to be a
positive value just like that and then
we'll go to the curves adjustment and
instead of a really crisp one we're
actually going to make it a little bit
higher
we'll turn the whole effect on we can
see we're sort of overlapping the bevels
now on the top one let's get rid of the
color correction and maybe turn the
height down just a bit alright so this
is looking pretty good one thing we're
gonna add is a drop shadow so
perspective drop shadow and again will
match the angle of the light bring the
distance down really low it's amazing
what just that one pixel will do and
then we'll take the top copy now there's
not an inner shadow effect but there is
a layer style so if we do layer style
inner shadow we'll go down to the inner
shadow settings let me solo this turn
the opacity up and then rotate the
shadow away from the light and then well
shorten up the distance so it looks like
a layer of paint and then maybe if we go
to the curves adjustment for the Alpha
and bring this down a bit let's see let
me create a much sharper edge and then
on the below copy maybe turn up the
height so we're really trying to create
this sort of chipped up effect
now we could add a little bit of red to
this top copy and that's the sort of
rusted edge now a couple things I don't
like the rest being so close to the edge
so the solution is we take the alpha
decay and we're going to invert this so
choose invert and we'll set this to
invert the Alpha and then we'll add a
fast blur fast box blur would do like a
5 pixels and then we'll add a tenth and
make it black and then we'll add a
curves adjustment and go to the alpha
channel I will just kind of crunch it
down a bit so that's how we get rid of
it from touching the edge now the edge
is pretty sharp so the way to blend is
maybe a turbulent displace and turn it
down really low maybe a three complexity
even that's already working pretty good
one last thing to give the texture on
the inside this is a cool trick let's do
one more solid call this bump add a
fractal noise really really small on the
scale very noisy and then hit f4 hit the
transfer mode to darken and then lower
the opacity really low just like 5 or
something like that and that way you
create a little texture but if we take
the bottom copy and drop the brightness
in fact if you want this to be shorter
just increase the contrast
and that way there's like a texture
inside but not on the outside now we can
turn the brightness of the fractal down
and then set a keyframe and then just
animate it on let's take a look all
right so this is looking good it could
be an acid burn effect it could be a
whole bunch of different things all
right now if we take a quick look at
this example it's the same principle
now if I turn off these four top layers
you can see that we have a little bit of
a lift with a positive height then we've
got a cutout which has a little bit of a
negative and a little bit of an inner
shadow and then on top of that we've got
some plaster or just a deeper hole and
then we have another negative value with
an inner shadow so that it really cuts
into the title now in this example I did
something even simpler I just animated
the mask and this sort of revealed the
texture underneath it and that's what
created this nice decay plaster effect
all right guys well I hope you enjoyed
the tutorial as always visit the web
site Video Copilot dotnet we've got the
project files the textures the particle
stock footage all downloadable for free
check it out have fun experiment always
now if you do like what we do and you
want to help support us check out some
of our different plugins for After
Effects we've got element 3d really cool
3d particle plugin we've got some great
sound effects and motion pulls we've
also got a great collection of action
stock footage so if you need any of that
stuff
check out the website anyways I'm Andrew
Kramer thank you guys for watching and
we will see you next time